USBController/README.md, before:

# cc-franz
This is part of the CC-Franz Project

Implemented by Stefan Seibert at Stuttgart Media University in Summer 2015
as part of the class "Embedded Systems" from Thomas Maier.

You will find two subfolders:

/USB-Shield
This subfolder contains the AVR based project code to use the
USB Host Shield with MAX3421 chip in combination with a AVR
ATmega328p without the need of the Arduino Development Framework.
The Code can be compiled with AVR-GCC by using the provided makefile.
It is configured to send the Input Data of a HID Gamecontroller via UART

/WebSocket_Client
this is the project for a websocket client for the ESP8266 WIFI module
It needs the esp_open_sdk (https://github.com/pfalcon/esp-open-sdk) 
for being compiled correctly. It can be compiled to flash the ESP8266.
It is configured to send the via UART received USB Control Data 
as WebSocket Messages.


HID Based Game Controller
=====================

Used Data for Events:

X = 1 A = 2 B = 3 Y = 4  L = 5 R = 6 Select = 9 Start = 10
Kreuz Links: Z2 = 0 Kreuz Rechts: Z2 = 255 
Kreuz Oben: Rz = 0 Kreuz Unten: Rz = 255
Start = Rotation und Move auf 0 
Kreuz links/rechts = Move -/+ 
Kreuz hoch/runter = Rotation -/+  

A = Move Speed 255/8
B = Move Speed 255/2
Y = Rotate Speed 255/8
X = Rotate Speed 255

L = Speed -2 R = Speed +2

Commit message:

More detailed code comments, slight improvements.
Some slight improvements, removed unnecessary stuff
and added more detailed comments for better code understanding.

USBController/README.md, after:

# cc-franz
This is part of the CC-Franz Project

Implemented by Stefan Seibert at Stuttgart Media University in Summer 2015
as part of the class "Embedded Systems" from Thomas Maier.

You will find two subfolders:

/USB-Shield
This subfolder contains the AVR based project code to use the
USB Host Shield with MAX3421 chip in combination with a AVR
ATmega328p without the need of the Arduino Development Framework.
The Code can be compiled with AVR-GCC by using the provided makefile.
It is configured to send the Input Data of a HID Gamecontroller via UART

Files in USB_Shield originated or extended from Stefan Seibert, comments in files also:
/utils.h + /utils.c - For sending data or debug information via UART
/usb_wifi.cpp - main file, for initiation of USB Protocol and sending commands
/hidjoystickrptparser.h + /hidjoystickrptparser.cpp - modified and extended to handle input correctly

/WebSocket_Client
this is the firmware for a websocket client for the ESP8266 WIFI module
It needs the esp_open_sdk (https://github.com/pfalcon/esp-open-sdk) 
for being compiled correctly. It can be compiled to flash the ESP8266.
It is configured to send the via UART received USB Control Data 
as WebSocket Messages.

Files in WebSocket_Client originated from Stefan Seibert, comments in files also:
/user/user_main.c - firmware main file for creating a HTTP Server in ESP8266
/user/websocketd.h + /user/websocketd.c - For creating a Websocket Connection as Server extended
from a old version from Daniel Grießhaber where WebSocket worked as client not as server.


HID Based Game Controller
=====================

Used Data for Events:

X = 1 A = 2 B = 3 Y = 4  L = 5 R = 6 Select = 9 Start = 10
Kreuz Links: Z2 = 0 Kreuz Rechts: Z2 = 255 
Kreuz Oben: Rz = 0 Kreuz Unten: Rz = 255
Start = Rotation und Move auf 0 
Kreuz links/rechts = Move -/+ 
Kreuz hoch/runter = Rotation -/+  

A = Move Speed 255/8
B = Move Speed 255/2
Y = Rotate Speed 255/8
X = Rotate Speed 255

L = Speed -2 R = Speed +2
